README.md, before:

# ProtoShape - Godot Prototyping Extension for CSG

ProtoShape is a Godot plugin that adds a library of dynamic shapes based on Godot's Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG). It is designed to be used for prototyping levels and game mechanics.

<!-- Icon (addons/proto_shape/icon/proto-shape-icon.png) -->
<img src="addons/proto_shape/icon/proto-shape-icon.png" style="height: 40%; width: 40%; margin: 0 auto; display: block">

## Installation

Install plugin from the AssetLib inside Godot or download the latest release from the [releases page](https://github.com/HLCaptain/proto-shape/releases/latest).

Enable the plugin inside Godot. `Project` -> `Project Settings` -> `Plugins` -> Enable `ProtoShape`.

## Usage

### Create a ProtoRamp

When adding a new child node, search for `ProtoRamp` and add it to the scene.

<!-- Add workflow snipets and video of a demo map -->

## Contributing

The library is written in `GDScript` and (mostly) follows the [GDScript style guide](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_styleguide.html). Also static typing is used where possible.

Extend the library of shapes by creating an issue or pull request! Share your idea for a shape or feature you would like to see added to the library.

If you find any bugs, feel free to create an issue.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Added `CONTRIBUTING.md`, modified `README.md`

README.md, after:

# ProtoShape - Godot Prototyping Extension for CSG

ProtoShape is a Godot plugin that adds a library of dynamic shapes based on Godot's Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG). It is designed to be used for prototyping levels and game mechanics.

<!-- Icon (addons/proto_shape/icon/proto-shape-icon.png) -->
<img src="addons/proto_shape/icon/proto-shape-icon.png" style="height: 40%; width: 40%; margin: 0 auto; display: block">

## Installation

Install plugin from the AssetLib inside Godot or download the latest release from the [releases page](https://github.com/HLCaptain/proto-shape/releases/latest).

Enable the plugin inside Godot. `Project` -> `Project Settings` -> `Plugins` -> Enable `ProtoShape`.

## Usage

Added shapes:

- `ProtoRamp`: ramp/staircase with adjustable height, width and length. Can adjust step count and various other parameters. Supports custom gizmos.

### Create a ProtoRamp

When adding a new child node, search for `ProtoRamp` and add it to the scene.

<!-- Add workflow snipets and video of a demo map -->

## Contributing

Feel free to open an issue for any bugs or feature requests. See more in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

The library is written in `GDScript` and (mostly) follows the [GDScript style guide](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_styleguide.html).

Extend the library of shapes by creating an issue or pull request! Share your idea for a shape or feature you would like to see added to the library.

If you find any bugs, feel free to create an issue.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
